# Home-Automation-System-using-IOT


	STEP 1 : 
	
	Gathering HardWare and Software : 
		
		To achieve home automation with iot we need few hardware devices , software services & platforms.
		Hardware Devices : Connecting Wires ,Bulb(5v AC) ,Fan ,Bulb holder & pin ,9v DC Motor ,ESP8266 Microcontroller board, 
				   2 channel SPDT Relay module,9v DC Power supply,230v AC Supply.

		Software Platforms : blynk.com , ifttt.com , Arduino IDE , Google Assistant.

	STEP 2 : 

	Connection of circuit : 

		After collecting all the devices as per requirements, connect ESP8266 with the devices as per circuit diagram.
		And then connect connect ESP8266 with power source (DC).
		Connect relay with our AC Bulb and DC motor.

	STEP 3 : 	
	
	Blynk Configuration : 

		Blynk is responsible for holding and flowing the data. Blynk is server for automation project.
		Create blynk account by visiting 'www.blynk.com' and create a room template.
		Unique Device and template ids will be useful in code will be auto generated by blynk.
		Add devices in our room which we want to control through voice or mobile or web application.
	
	STEP 4 : 

	Creating code logic for automation of devices :

		Download Arduino IDE from www.arduino.cc.
		Create new sketch in 'Arduino IDE' which is used to genreate code in C++ language.
		Add Code for connection of ESP8266 with hotspot using your credentials of wifi.
		Add for establishing connection of ESP board with Blynk server.	
		Add logic to on off devices on button click of app By defining blynk_write function.
		Code is enclosed within this file.

		Reset ESP8266 to clear previous code , compile and upload sketch from Arduino IDE.
		 
	STEP 5 :
 	
	Install Blynk IOT app and test Mobile Application :
		
		Install Blynk IOT app.
		Register with valid credentials which are used in blynk configuration step.
		Open showing Room and Test your devices by on/off.
	
	STEP 6 : 	

	Voice Automation setup : 
		
		Visit www.ifttt.com website.
		Register Your account by providing proper credentials.
		
	STEP 7 : 	

	Voice Automation using Applet : 
		
		Create new template for logic module : 'if this then that(IFTTT)'.
		Select Google Assistant in this part and provide the commands by which you will call your devices ,
		i.e. , (turn on the light).
		After this add that part Select WebHook in it.
		Add URL of Blynk server in it. (i.e. , https://blr1.blynk.cloud/external/api/update?token=x1Yi-BNq7yu8qqbvFE0P2AUFNZvoLVd5&v0=1)
		Add your token id and pin accordingly your devices.
		Set method as GET type.
		Create more account for other devices and on/off operations.

	STEP 8 : 	
	
	Google Assistant Mobile App Setup and Testing : 
		
		Download Google Assistant mobile app and login it with credentials of ifttt.com.
		Test your devices by commands like turn on light or turn off fan.	
